Seventh Horcrux

The presence of a foreign soul may have unexpected side effects on a growing child. I am Lord Volde...Harry Potter. I'm Harry Potter. In which Harry is insane, Hermione is a Dark Lady-in-training, Ginny is a minion, and Ron is confused.

<!-- more -->

<div class="panel">
Original story on fanfiction.net: <a href="
https://www.fanfiction.net/s/10677106/1/Seventh-Horcrux
">
Seventh Horcrux
</a>
</div>

# HP vs Childhood
I am Lord Voldemort, and I was one step away from conquering Wizarding
Britain.

October 31st, 1981 began as a fairly normal day – arranging raids, crucioing
incompetents, lazing about on my throne – yet it seemed that everything my
followers did irked me.

Bellatrix crouched at my feet, sneaking glances and occasionally emitting
dreamy sighs – exactly the sort of behavior that caused me to turn myself into
a nose-less snake. Rabastan Lestrange was playing a game called Curse the
Recruits, the recruits were screaming, Nott was paging through one of my Dark
tomes, and Lucius had disappeared to go brush his hair or something. There
were worse ways to spend Halloween, I supposed.

“M-my Lord!” a nasally voice cried, its owner scurrying towards my throne. “I
have information on the Potters.”

I paused for a moment, contemplating the Death Eater’s words. The Potters were
Dumbledore’s minions, the ones with the prophesied child. They’d defied me
three times. I should know; I keep a list of these things.

“Speak quickly, then,” I snapped, “I don’t like to be kept waiting.”

The short Death Eater cowered at my feet, and I noted that he was particularly
talented at cowering.  
“I’m s-s-sorry, my lord. I’ve gained their trust, as you ordered me to, and I
can tell you that…” – he took a shuddering breath – “the Potters may be found
at Godric’s Hallow.”

He rattled off the proper address, stumbling over every other word. The man
was clearly incompetent, but he had been useful.

I said, “I am immensely pleased with this information…”

What was his name again? I narrowed my eyes at the still shivering man’s
unremarkable, brown hair. That was the trouble with giving all your followers
masks. They all looked so _similar._ After a moment of silence, I murmured,
“My faithful servant.”

“Thank you, my l-lord,” he simpered, bowing again and again. By the fifth
time, I’d become peeved and, with an idle flick of my wand, slammed him into
the stones.

“You are dismissed.”

The bleeding man stumbled from the room.

Seizing the opportunity to escape my followers, I gracefully rose to my feet.

“I shall be busy for some time. Do not kill any of your fellow Death Eaters
without my permission” – I sternly eyed Bellatrix – “We hardly need a
repetition of last Valentine’s Day.”

Bellatrix bowed her head sullenly. “Yes, my lord.”

After a moment, she perked up. This was almost certainly a bad thing. “May I
help you dispose of the blood traitors, my lord?”

Her dark eyes widened and she batted them at me. Disgusting. Bellatrix looked
almost like a little child begging for a puppy. Observing the manic grin
twitching to life on her face, I resolved to never again use Bellatrix and the
word puppy together in the same sentence

“No,” I said a touch too quickly.

Clearing my throat, I clarified, “This is a simple mission for I, the Dark
Lord Voldemort. Your addition would be unnecessary.”

I turned away from my pouting follower. Bellatrix was a wonderful asset:
loyal, powerful, and bloodthirsty. Yet her eagerness could be grating. I
walked quickly down the gloomy hallway, swept through the heavy door, and – my
ears popping as I exited the wards – apparated mid-stride.

I appeared in the middle of a quiet street in the village known as Godric’s
Hollow. I had been here once or twice before to observe Dumbledore’s
residence. Know thy enemy and all that.

It was still fairly early in the night and a few trick-or-treaters wandered
between houses. They stole glances at me and my, to quote them, bloody
brilliant costume.

None of them so much as glanced at one particular cottage, though smoke
drifted from its chimney. Considering children and their gluttonous fixation
on candy, I could only presume I’d found the correct address.

I didn’t bother with the subtle approach. In a moment, the door was blasted
off its hinges and the screaming had started. Again, I’d like to stress that
this had, so far, been a perfectly normal day.

The father was quickly dispatched, and I merrily climbed the staircase,
following the hysterical sobs of mother and child. I’d never considered myself
a violent man, but there is a certain satisfaction in winning, even if my
opponents are severely outmatched. So what if I liked to draw it out a bit?

The Potter woman flung her arms out in a pitiful shield. She looked feral,
eyes wide, limbs shaking. “Not Harry! Please, no, not Harry. I’ll do
anything!” she cried.

I offered her a chance to live because, contrary to popular belief, I can be
nice. I’m also quite the conversationalist when my companion isn’t trying to
lick my boots. Seriously, who does that? But I digress.

The Potter woman had finally used up my patience, and I killed her with an
Avada Kedavra. I laughed, the sound nearly drowning out the baby’s sobs. So
this was the child of prophecy, was it? Pathetic.

“Avada Kedavra,” I said. The baby watched the spell curiously. He screamed, I
cackled, and the room turned green.

Suddenly, I experienced a sensation that felt suspiciously like dying horribly
and lost consciousness. My memory of the next few years is rather confused.

That day – October 31st, 1981 – marked the end of my reign and of the First
Wizarding War. It also began my second life. This time, I was going to do
things a bit differently.

I am Harry Potter, former Dark Lord.

* * *

In retrospect, I have absolutely no idea how Horcruxes work.

I probably shouldn’t have made one, let alone five, based on only three
paragraphs of description which mainly centering on the mechanics of the
ritual and not the effects. But I had limited access to the Restricted
Section, at the time, and I was a very enthusiastic youth.

I had originally assumed that they would make my body invulnerable, but that
was clearly not the case.

Perhaps they bound me to the world, allowing me to possess those weaker than
myself. Obviously, the Potter child had succumbed to my greater force of will.
I supposed that made as much sense as anything.

On that note, what about the prophecy? This would be easier if I knew it in
its entirety. It was possible that I’d already fulfilled the blasted thing. My
body was incinerated by my reflected spell. Did that count as being
vanquished? I was Harry Potter, now, and I could hardly vanquish myself.

My questions would go unanswered for some time.

* * *

The Dursleys immediately sensed my evil. This was particularly impressive
since I took several months to properly remember my time as a dark lord, yet
they deemed me a monster upon arriving on their doorstep.

Amid the humiliation of diaper changes, tentative steps, and lisping words, I
took great satisfaction in my caretakers’ building horror. Even as a baby, I
could still strike fear into the hearts of filthy muggles.

It started small as I relearned the art of wandless magic. Forget to feed
little Harry and Dudley’s bottle explodes. Insult him and your tongue starts
to swell up. Go ahead, lock him in a cupboard. He will _always _find his way
out, and you will somehow find your way in.

Even misfortunes that could not possibly be my fault, such as Vernon’s
demotion at work, were attributed to my malice. I, of course, never argued
against anything that made me seem more powerful.

The Dursleys eventually decided that they feared my dark presence more than
Dumbledore’s threats. They dropped me off at the orphanage, the firehouse, and
deep in the wilderness. They even called Child Protective Services on
themselves. Repeatedly. Yet I was always back by morning.

I blame Dumbledore.

I was five years old when Petunia Dursley realized that she would never be rid
of me. I know this because she began sobbing while insisting that she would
never be rid of me.

Thick as they were, the Dursleys eventually realized that the only way to live
unharmed was to accommodate my desires. It was the childhood I had always
dreamed of.

* * *

During those early years, I had a lot of time to think.

From a few expeditions into the Wizarding World, I cobbled together the state
of things. I had obviously vanished, and my followers had either been arrested
or rejected me. Meanwhile, everyone believed that Harry Potter was an amazing
and incredibly talented child (a not inaccurate belief).

I’ll admit that I’d grown weary of being a Dark Lord. It was boring, the Death
Eaters were annoying, and I had no particular interest in reigning over a
nation of mindless sheep. There was a certain charm to fighting against
Dumbledore – the wily fool – and murder is a good stress-reliever. But perhaps
it was time to discard my previous life. This new identity could open doors
that my previous self had foolishly closed long ago.

It was time to return to my first dream:

Teaching.

* * *

To be honest, I hadn’t planned on the whole Dark Lord thing. It just sort of
happened.

I’d always wanted to be a professor, either of Defense Against the Dark Arts
or just of the Dark Arts. The latter wasn’t exactly taught at Hogwarts,
however, and Hogwarts was my first true home. My greatest desire was to return
to it and live there. Forever.

With my original Horcruxes created and hidden away, I might have become as
much a fixture of the school as poor, idiotic Binns. That dream was crushed by
Dumbledore. His first official act as Headmaster was to deny me the position.
After a very strenuous job interview, I might add. Offended and heartbroken, I
cursed the DADA post and stormed out of the castle.

So there I was: depressed, unemployed, and increasingly intoxicated. I slumped
across the Hog’s Head’s bar, accompanied by a few of my old Slytherin buddies.
We were reminiscing, telling racist jokes, and complaining about all the
Muggleborns stealing our jobs. At some point, we got onto the topic of the
abysmal education provided by Hogwarts. Turning away a young, eager,
intelligent – if slightly evil – job applicant showed a startling lack of
foresight.

“Kids nowadays don’t know anything,” I slurred. “I bet the six of us could
take out every one of the half-wits they’re graduating and show them exactly
how much they suck at defending against the Dark Arts. Then they’d _have_ to
hire me.”

That’s the last thing I remember of that night.

A few days later, I woke up in an alley with a pounding headache. By the time
I’d gotten home and downed a hangover potion, _The Prophet_ had arrived. In my
drunken haze, I’d killed six Ministry workers and declared myself the Dark
Lord Voldemort (I never would have picked that name had I been sober).

Once you’ve done something like that, it’s exceedingly difficult to get a job
around children. I know. I tried.

The next several years were spent struggling to legitimize my movement. I
commissioned uniforms, made inquiries with Europe’s darker creatures, cobbled
together an ideological banner with which to rally new recruits…Recreating the
Dark Mark alone took me nearly six months. Natural genius aside, I have no
idea how I managed that while smashed.

My power base was entrenched in the Pureblood, Slytherin alumni as my drinking
companions benefitted greatly from convincing their allies to join me. Not
only were they tied to my will with dark magic, but they were also desperate
to cover up the details of our drunken escapade. An embarrassment like that
would be a crippling blow to their rapidly declining oligarchy.

In retrospect, the situation could have been worse. I might have joined forces
with dozens of pompous fools and admitted cowards, but at least I was their
leader and therefore best.

* * *

I stroked the parchment of my Hogwarts letter with fondness.

The youngest Dursley nearly wet himself at the deranged smile on my face. That
was an expression usually reserved for our little “chats” (These usually
involved quite a bit more screaming than chatting. Still, I always healed him
at the end, so it’s not like he has anything to complain about).

My “loving” relatives were more than happy to ship me off to Hogwarts where I
would be far, far away from them. The desire was mutual. Even with training,
the three were barely tolerable.

* * *

If I’d known the scar would be this much trouble, I would have worn a hat. I
slammed the door shut on a particularly persistent fan. Sure, I liked
groveling as much as the next dark lord, but for a stranger to actually try
and kiss my robes? Honestly! Whatever happened to keeping a respectful,
reverent distance?

Wandlessly locking the door of the shabby, silent shop, I took a moment to
catch my breath.

“Good afternoon,” a voice murmured. I practically jumped out of my skin. How
in Merlin’s name had he snuck up on me?

“Mr. Ollivander,” I said to the pale eyed, elderly man. Nearly fifty years had
passed since I’d last seen him, yet he hadn’t aged a day. Clearly I wasn’t the
only immortal wizard in Britain. I quashed the urge to ask him how he’d done
it.

“Yes, yes. I thought I’d be seeing you soon. Harry Potter.” He spoke my name
with a strange emphasis.

While I pondered the wandmaker’s dark secrets, the man chattered inanely about
nothing in particular. His mask of absentminded insanity was admirable. He
handed me one wand and another and another still. Before I could even give
them a wave, he snatched them from my hand. He proceeded to do this with every
wand in the bloody shop. If I hadn’t been certain he’d taken precautions
against such paltry attacks, I might have stabbed him with one of his wares. I
was Lord Voldemort, for Merlin’s sake! I could easily force the cooperation of
even an unsuitable wand.

An unsettling glint appeared in Ollivander’s silvery eyes. Mumbling to
himself, he dug out a holly wand. It hummed beneath my fingertips, warm to the
touch. Unconsciously, I smiled at the familiar sensation and swung the wand
around in a rain of colorful sparks.

Wrapping it up, he muttered. “Curious…curious…”

I was beginning to suspect something was curious. I inquired, with careful
politeness, “Curious?”

“Curious,” he agreed. He rambled on about my wand for some time before finally
coming to a point. “It is very curious indeed that you should be destined for
this wand when its brother – why, its brother gave you that scar.”

“What a coincidence,” I squeaked.

He stared at me intently, and I could feel my stomach drop. He knew. I could
see it in his watchful eyes, the taunting tilt of his head. Ollivander knew
exactly who I was or, more precisely, who I wasn’t. My gaze darted to the
wrapped wand in his hand. If I was fast, I could probably grab it, kill him,
and run in a minute, maybe less. I’d have preferred to avoid murder for a few
more years, but desperate times call for desperate measures.

Seemingly unaware of my frantic thoughts, Ollivander continued, “I think we
must expect great things from you, Mr. Potter…After all, He-Who-Must-Not-Be-
Named did great things – terrible, yes, but great.”

…Was he supporting me? That sounded suspiciously like a compliment. I said,
“Thank you, sir, for the help.”

“Anytime, Harry Potter,” the man rasped.

* * *

Stepping into the train station as the Dursleys’ car squealed away, I had
never been happier. I was returning to Hogwarts, and it had been far too long
since I’d been home.

* * *

**A/N: I’ve posted this previously on Space Battles (under the same username, in fact). I’ve moved this edited version over here since it’s a more permanent and easily-found location. Though I appreciate people who seek to defend my literary honor, please, my dearest darlings, do not accuse me of plagiarizing my own work. **

**For first time readers: I wholly believe that this story improves with time. Scenes (and years) get longer, characters better settle into their skins, and plotlines diverge more from canon.  
**

**It’s been a great delight writing this and a far greater one sharing it with you all. Enjoy.**

