A continuation of Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality, focusing on Draco in his second year. I try to not deviate from HPMOR, but I may make mistakes and there are some plot points open to interpretation. More political than HPMOR, but still some cognitive psychology ala Harry's Lessons. And not nearly as good, so lower your expectations.

<!-- more -->

<div class="panel">
Original story on fanfiction.net: <a href="
https://www.fanfiction.net/s/11223914/1/Draco-Malfoy-and-the-Practice-of-Rationality
">
Draco Malfoy and the Practice of Rationality
</a>
</div>

# Social Gatherings

Draco looked across the table at his mother, _His Mother, _and quietly sipped
another spoon of Diricawl soup. Narcissa stared at her glass of wine,
untouched in an ornate silver goblet engraved with three snakes poking their
heads over the edge of the lip, as if drinking. The candles on the table burnt
low, but had never (in all the years Draco had known) managed to finish that
final inch of wax.

The chair at the head of the table sat empty.

“I’m sorry, my son. I don’t know how to act. I remember you as a baby. And to
find a decade gone? Lucius gone? Our house …. ” Draco put down his spoon, his
mind racing with lessons, but … lessons were not for family.

“Mother. I don’t know, either.” Draco pushed his chair back and the house
elves immediately scurried in, heads down, and cleared the table. “I don’t
remember you.” He saw her try to hide a pained look and grimaced “No, I mean,
I have glimpses in my mind” _that Harry said are just me remembering a
daydream, not a real memory_. He paused while the elves left, as noiselessly
as they’d entered. “But, you … you were coo-ing at me. And I don’t remember
you being gone, your Death, I remember Father telling me the stories over and
over. I was supposed to love you automatically, by being your child, and that
has been taking away from us. But I do remember the the coo-ing.”

Narcissa smiled at that and finally picked up the glass of wine. “That could
have been anyone. All the witches coo-ed at you, my beautiful boy.” She drank.

Earlier, there had been the greeting, Draco’s shock as Professor, no
Headmistress McGonagall re-introduced him with his long dead mother. Her
confusion as memory charms faded away, then more anguish at the lost years.
There had been joy, but joy mixed with anger. McGonagall had quickly brought
them back to Hogwarts, and then they’d taken the Floo network home.

“And now you are at Hogwarts…on your first great adventure. You must tell me
everything, and quickly, because in three months I will lose you again.”
Narcissa saw Draco’s control; there was no pained look. _Lucius could hide his
emotions from everyone but me. _She looked around, reached into her robes
(kept in her closet for years, unmoved except for a weekly cleaning) and drew
out her wand.

“_Lumos_! _Lumos! _That’s better” she said, putting her wand away. The
pictures on the walls let out a small exclamation. Lord Montavian Malfoy,
Father’s Grandfather, who’d purchased the first insurance contract sold by
Gringotts days before a group of Griffyindors slew his prized Hungarian
Horntail, awoke with a snort. Draco looked around. He’d grown up in Malfoy
Manor and the dining hall had always been cloaked in shadows, never bright.
Noon outside meant dusk in the dining hall. He couldn’t see the heraldry at
night. Father always told him he needed darkness to plan carefully. But now ….
he had so many secrets he wanted, he needed to share. _And so does she_.

“Tell me about Father.” Draco pulled his knees up to his chest and clutched
them to him with his hands.

“After you were born, your father’s wand glowed silver for a month, and he
seemed to fly up and down the stairs.”

Day turned to evening, and evening to night and morning with stories traded
between mother and son, as they talked of her husband and his father and
discovered the truth that was somewhere between the two.

* * *

June 26th

Draco opened the door and bowed low. “Madam Goyle. Madam Crabbe.” He nodded at
Gregory and Vincent, who stood slightly behind, and they nodded back. “Please,
do come in.” His mother’s voice sang out from the dining room “Adrasteia!
Tabitha! _It has been so long!_” Draco backed away and swept his arm low and
across, gesturing for his friend’s mothers to enter.

“Vincent, you should take lessons in manners from Lord Malfoy,” said Madam
Crabbe, her voice not steady. “Draco … you are becoming more and more like
Lucius …” she bowed her head and rushed past him, robes swishing noisily. Her
voice brightened “Narcissa! When I heard …. I daren’t hope it was true ….”
Madam Goyle was slightly past him when she stopped, turned back to him and
squatted _so that she’s looking up to me, not down at me_ Draco thought
automatically. “I am so sorry about your Father, Draco.” He didn’t try to stop
the tears.

“We all lost someone, Madam Goyle, and I am the only one who gained.” She
hugged him quickly, wiped the single tear from his face, smiled, and then went
inside. Draco paused, then stepped outside and closed the door behind him.

“Aren’t we going inside?” Vincent asked.

Gregory leaned against the wall, shaking his head “Do you really want to?” He
raised an eyebrow.

Draco gathered his robes carefully and sat down on the steps. “How are you two
doing?” This had been the first time they’d been able to see each other,
outside of funerals and wakes. Vincent shrugged, and sat down next to Draco.

“We’re alone,” said Vincent. “I mean, it’s not like before school. You had
friends and family. Now we’ve lost family and all of our friends are avoiding
us, because we lost our fathers. When I went to Diagon Alley last week …. it’s
like we weren’t there.”

“It’s hard” said Gregory. “I get sad, and then angry.” He picked up some
pebbles and started throwing them down the path. “I wake up and I feel normal
for a second, happy, and then I remember and I’m angry at myself.” Vincent
took out his wand and started casting at each passing pebble, _Ma-ha-su_,
mostly missing but barely. Draco was impressed, given the size and speed, but
just nodded. Gregory picked up another handful of rocks and continued “Some
days I think I’m not mad enough. I’m just kind of drifting along. Should I be
sadder? Happier?”

“I know,” Draco replied as a sharp _Ping_ Sent a pebble veering off into the
nearby trees. “Nice. I’m used to having a mask, like Father taught. But I
can’t tell if I’m wearing it enough, or too much.” Laughter came from inside
the house. After a moment, Gregory continued lazily throwing.

“Does it bother you?” Gregory asked. Draco gave him a look. “That they are
laughing?”

Draco thought about it. “A bit. But it’s like you said. You should be sadder,
but sometimes you aren’t. So I can’t really get angry.” He shrugged. _What had
it been called? Right. The Fundamental Attribution Error. _“They’re reuniting.
It’s happy. We can’t be what the world expects to see all the time. Why expect
our Mothers to be? They need a break as much as we do.”

“Yes,” said Vincent as his latest spell passed just behind the last rock. “We
do.” He sat down on the other side of Draco, crossed his left leg over his
right. He scratched his neck with his wand before it disappeared back inside
his robe. “Any plans for the rest of the summer?”

“I have to go through Father’s papers.” Gregory shot Vincent a surprised look.
_Lord Malfoy_ _kept notes_? “Nothing like that. Formal contracts, business
arrangements. Its tedious. And studying. I’ve got to be ready for Defence this
year. I’ve been reading about Wars.”

“Grindelwald, or older stuff?”

“Muggle wars, mainly.”

Vincent had, by this point, laid down completely and was staring at the sky. A
passing cloud, shaped like a sneering hippogriff, hinted of rainfall in the
near future. “Why muggle wars? I mean, Dragon Army could probably defeat most
muggle armies. And if not now, in a few years.”

Draco nodded. _He’d been thinking that, too. As he read about Thermopylae,
Jutland, The Tet Offensive, Bunker Hill, Iwo Jima._ “Why could we defeat them,
Vince?” Gregory stopped in mid throw.

“Magic” they said together.

Draco shook his head. “I don’t think so.” He raised his hands in surrender.
“Yes. But not _just_ that. If we fought a muggle army, they wouldn’t know what
we could do. We could apparate and disapparate. Adults could anyway. _We_
could confound them, stupefy them. We’d have broomsticks. It would be a rout.”
Draco got up and started pacing. “But it’s not the magic that makes it the
rout. Look at what happened in all of our battles. Each armies magic is
roughly the same.” Vincent started to say something and Draco waved a hand,
“with the houses split up we all had mudbloods” _No point opening that can of
worms just yet_ “and strong wizards and witches. We’re better at Magic than
Potter, even Granger is; but Potter won more often. Why?”

“Because nobody has any idea what he’s going to do” muttered Gregory. Vincent
nodded.

“Right!” said Draco. “Two muggle armies _know_ what they can do to each other.
But if they face Wizards … they don’t know! Every battle last year - _every
single one_ \- was won or lost by surprise. Granger’s army played dead in the
first battle, Potter surprised them with that sunlight potion that decimated
Sunshine Regiment, but we _out-surprised_ him then. We knew what was coming,”
Gregory looked at him sharply and Draco smiled. “Well, we knew enough. So, no
surprise. Our gloves. That potion of liquid night during the broomstick fight.
The suits of armor. _Everything_ in the lake with all those stupid plots… ”

“Not all the battles, Boss” said Vincent. “Diggory’s victory in the Great
Hall?”

Draco considered it. “OK, that’s the exception that proves the rule. And
sometimes history works that way too. Sometimes you get generals who just plod
along, and then the better army wins. You _can_ win by just being better and
out preparing them. But it’s safer to surprise them. Even V…” Draco’s voice
dropped. “Even You-Know-Who got tricked. Professor Quirrell was good, and
maybe could have won if he was healthy. But something surprised Voldemort,”
Vincent flinched slightly, Draco pretended not to notice, “something got him.
He went through our fathers, all of the Death Eaters without a scratch. Even
Quirrell died. But something surprised him, and he lost too.”

Draco kept pacing. _Once you say it out loud its obvious. But what could
surprise him? Maybe Quirrell set a trap and his entire attack was a
distraction …_ Draco frowned, then shook his head. He remembered a lesson from
his father. He could even hear it in his Father’s voice _Speculating when you
do not have any information is a child’s game, my son._

“Dumbledore?” said Vincent, not caring if Draco was annoyed. “He was crazy,
but even You Know Who was scared of him.” Draco started pacing again, unable
to shake a feeling in his gut. _It was Potter. I don’t know how, but.._.

_Ludicrous_ said his inner Lucius. T_he boy is a mad genius, but that is too
much. You underestimate Voldemort._

“Nah,” said Gregory, “Dumbledore was dead. Probably the same time as Flamel.
Draco’s right. Quirrell gave some trap to Granger. She hit him with it once
they both came back…”

_Look at the actual results and see who benefits,_ Draco thought.

Lucius got quiet. _You may be right, my son. But we have no way to know._

Vincent shook his head. “The Professor was a Slytherin’s Slytherin, sure. But
he wouldn’t do that.”

“Sure he would, she was a General. Killing her was a personal insult” replied
Gregory.

Draco sighed. “In ANY case,” he said. “If I read the Muggle History _that
Potter’s already studied_, he’ll have less to surprise me with this year.
There are a ton of good ideas. Muggles may not know much, but they fought a
lot of wars. And you notice patterns: How important it is to be able to
communicate during a fight, to have good information, to have troops trained
to work together. We learned all of that, even in a few battles, but if you
start to look at hundreds of them you see lots of tricks. I don’t want to have
to discover everything ourselves. There’s not enough time.”

Draco paused for breath, “So even if Potter manages to, I don’t know, Imperius
the Giant Squid or something” _That’s actually a good idea, and forgivable
too, I think_ “we’ll at least smash Sunshine Regiment.”

Vincent and Gregory froze, all camaraderie gone, rigidly formal. Draco saw the
shift from relaxed friends to minions. Anxious minions. Draco glanced back and
forth between them.

“What?” he said, his voice steady. Just then the head elf, a good hand taller
than all of the other elves in Malfoy Manor, appeared with a poof and bowed to
Draco.

“Mistress says that Young Lord and guests should come in for dinner.” The elf
didn’t stand up from his bow, but shot a glance at Draco as he stood, frozen.

“What?” Draco said louder, voice preternaturally steady, lest it crack.

“Mistress says…”

“Not you!” he snapped. The elf, still bowed, disappeared with the sound of wet
lightning.

Gregory took a deep breath. “You haven’t been following the _Prophet?_” Draco
shook his head. There had been too many funerals, and the aftermath of
Voldemort’s death and business papers and days and days lost where he hadn’t
gotten out of bed at all. Those were past, but he hadn’t caught up and the
Prophet could run itself for a while.

Vincent looked him in the eye. “Granger sacked Azkaban.”

* * *

Dinner had been a slow, loud affair. As a child dinner parties bored Draco.
Father had great plots, but Draco hadn’t been involved, except in minor ways,
plots he recognized now as disposable training devices. Still, Draco’s
education had been exhaustive from as soon as he could walk and talk and the
more details he remembered and recited at breakfast, the better his chances
for ice cream. At parties, Draco’s boredom never dulled his eyesight. His
attention. He’d mingle, chatting some but listening always. Once, when he was
six, he’d discovered an elderly french witch in a closet with Olivander’s
assistant. That earned him ice cream for a week; although he hadn’t understood
_why_ until last October.

“Tabitha,” said Mother, “Draco tells me that Gregory is the best flyer in the
year.” Dinner had been a decidedly simple affair, roast beast with plain
gravy, steamed vegetables, wine (butterbeer for the boys), and bread.

Madam Goyle smiled broadly, but no teeth showed. Her hair, which had been done
up in a tightly wrapped braid under her hat, now had one loose black hair
hanging slightly out to the side. “Oh, yes, we’d heard. We were _quite_ sure
he was going to make the Quidditch team…”

Madam Crabbe nodded “I don’t agree with a lot of what passes for education
these days, but those armies are much better than that silly game anyway,
isn’t that right boys?” They all quickly agreed. “Gregory’s stories about the
battles are quite exciting, fighting in Draco’s army.”

“Well,” Narcissa replied quickly, “Draco had good help.”

“Oh no, that Professor _mixed the houses up_ even made that mudblood girl a
general,” replied Madam Crabbe.

“Well, standards have fallen” sniffed Madam Goyle, and all the ladies nodded.

Draco listened to the conversation, getting considerably more confused,
boredom forgotten. This conversation felt different. There was the game of
names, of course, subtle shifts of politeness. But there was something more,
something he’d never seen at Father’s parties. _This is the strangest
conversation I’ve ever seen_. The chit-chat continued, each woman pleading how
difficult things had been for her, _or her son_, and praising the other two
families. Draco mulled it over, answering questions politely when asked, no
different from Gregory or Vincent, in this situation. Just a boy at Mother’s
side.

He listened for several more minutes, after Tabitha implored Gregory to “tell
how Draco outwitted the Boy-Who-Lived in that battle in the woods” when Draco
put words to his feelings. _It’s a dominance contest, but in reverse. They are
all humbling themselves … as a sign of friendship. _He thought about it and it
explained everything. Father _had_ said women play the Game differently. Draco
relaxed. There would be times he’d have to fight, to maintain the position of
House Malfoy.

But not today.

He listened to Gregory’s story, surprised at how a story he knew, he’d lived,
could sound so different. Gregory’s point of view didn’t minimize Draco’s
importance, but he’d seen such a different aspect of it, scouting while Draco
cast spell after spell, that some of the turns surprised him. The bitterness
of his personal defeat (not mentioned at all, of course) felt easy to swallow
months later, especially when Draco considered that he’d been vanquished by
the Girl-Who-Revived, by the Girl with a Phoenix. He found himself laughing
while following the story, as Vincent and Gregory argued about who really
stunned Hannah Abbott, if Dean Thomas had really ridden a centaur to outflank
his second squadron or just stumbled on them in surprise and a cross fire of
useless _Somnium_ spells. Draco relaxed and truly enjoyed the party, happy to
be among friends for the first time in a month.

He’d deal with problems another day. Miss Granger wasn’t his enemy. Not
really. But she was certainly Draco’s problem. Draco Malfoy could be content
with _second_ place.

Desert (pie and vanilla ice cream) had been brought out when there was a knock
at the door. Draco got up and answered it. (The other two started to get up,
but he just shook his head slightly). As the door opened Draco saw the uniform
first, the person wearing it second. He nodded, smiled and bowed, a small
delay to remember the names the Auror had, and which name was correct. He went
by Li at Hogwarts…

“Auror Li. To what do I owe the pleasure?” A formulaic greeting he’d heard any
number of times. _Etiquette has many uses_, Father said,_ but filling awkward
silences and stalling are the two most important. _

“Lord Malfoy.” The Auror bowed, slightly compared to the formality of his
words, “I am sorry, but there have been _a bit too many_ instances of under-
age magic detected here in the last hour.”

Draco opened the door and beckoned Li in, “I apologize, sir. Mr. Crabbe, Mr.
Goyle and myself were showing off for our mothers.” He made sure that his
words carried. “With all of the troubles of the last month, it just slipped
our minds. I’m sure you understand.” Draco followed the Auror into the dining
room where Li bowed, deeply this time.

“Madam Malfoy. Forgive the intrusion. Boys?” he held out his hand. Draco
quickly took out his wand and handed it over. Vincent and Gregory got up
slowly and complied as well. _Father bribed the Aurors to overlook this. _All
of his words about how Malfoy Manor was not subject to this law had been true
of course; but Draco had never thought about _why_ that had been true.

As Vincent placed the third wand in the Auror’s hand, Li took out his own
wand, pointed it a Vincent’s.

“_Prior Incantato_,” said Li. Draco’s face fell into polite mask number one by
the time the words were finished. Li looked at Vincent “I’m not familiar with
that spell.”

“Professor Quirrell taught it early in the year” said Gregory.

“For practicing aiming” said Vincent. The Auror nodded, and quickly cast again
on the other two wands.

Mother saw it, the look on Auror Li’s face when he examined Draco’s wand. He
paused. “I don’t think I need to confiscate these. No harm in practicing, but
….” he just placed the wands back on the table and bowed again. “My apologies
for the intrusion\, Lord Malfoy”

_Everyone_ saw the look the Auror shot Draco when he walked by.

“Have a pleasant day, sir.” Draco walked him back to the door, making sure he
wasn’t _quite_ out of earshot when he said “I am sure we can continue my
father’s arrangement where I practice under strict supervision, if you can
recommend a tutor…”

By the time he returned to the table, a minute later, the conversation had
started back up again. Draco told and listened to stories, but now he was
considering several problems, the least of which was how to get around the
restrictions on underage magic for the rest of the summer. He idly played with
his ice cream which he no longer desired as he had before Hogwarts. Now he had
real problems, real goals. Draco still liked ice cream, but associated it with
childish pursuits, and he couldn’t enjoy it at the moment.

* * *

June 30th

“Augusta” said Mother, as Madam Longbottom pushed past a startled waiter and
sat down at the table. She snapped and pointed to the empty setting in front
of her, and the waiter scurried to get fresh plates.

“Narcissa. Lord Malfoy. What _are_ you wearing?” Narcissa was wearing a simple
black robe with purple trim. Purple was the new rage, although this robe
happened to be nearly fifteen years old. Draco wore a bespoke suit, charcoal
with green tie kept neatly in place with a silver snake clip.

“Good afternoon, Madam Longbottom” said Draco politely. “It is a muggle
outfit. I have business in London after lunch.” He’d bought the suit several
weeks ago, the better to blend in. He’d learned this outfit would blend
perfectly in their world …. when he turned twenty. After that disastrous
outing he’d taken to wearing blue jeans and an atrocious orange jacket with
hood and pullstrings, which looked terrible but was the correct fashion for
children in that strange world. _Comfortable, though_. Mother liked the suit
though, so he wore that until he was alone. And, although he’d never admit it,
he liked the suit as well.

“Don’t let me keep you, dears. I just wanted to say hello.”

“_Augusta_.” Mother looked around, but the restaurant was mostly empty and
what few patrons were there were looking at the couple going into Mary’s Room.
“There is no need for false hospitality.”

Madam Longbottom took off her hat, her hair a mess underneath. “I offer none.
You know I loathed Lucius. Do you know he only ever said two true things to me
his whole life apart from his name? But we widows must stick together to
survive. _That_ bond I understand all too well.” By now some settings had
arrived and she poured herself a glass of tea. “And as for Lord Malfoy and I,
why we have an even rarer bond.”

“We do?” Draco blurted out.

“We got someone _back_. That almost never happens. Now with the Ministry
having discovered Merlin’s Chalice, I suppose it will happen more often.”

The Daily Prophet had been ablaze for the last several weeks starting with the
story of how Amelia Bones, the Director of Magical Law Enforcement had
discovered Lord Voldemort’s notes detailing various artifacts that could
restore him to full power. This explained how You-Know-Who had been defeated
so easily by a school girl, albeit “the most powerful witch her age any
teacher could recall” according to Headmistress McGonagall. Lord Voldemort had
returned to life, but had just started his quest to return to his full power.
The article went on to discuss how Director Bones had carefully pieced
together the notes with cryptic clues and hints left by Dumbledore. Put
together those led her to the resting place of the Chalice. The story
described how she and her Aurors had recovered it with minimal loss of limbs
that could now, thanks to the Chalice, be fully healed and restored.

A few days later the Prophet reported that a middle-aged DMLE Bones had
presented the discovery (but not the Chalice itself) to the Wizengamot. You
could still tell it was her in the pictures, although she was less angular
than her older self she gave no indication of softness. After the announcement
the Cures had started a trickle but now hundreds of people had been saved at
Hogwarts (technically the Peverell Hospital located adjacent to Hogwarts) by
Merlin’s Chalice which reversed aging and healed the sick.

_And the insane, apparently_. Draco noticed that story confused him, but
continued the conversation.

“Neville’s parents are fine? I hadn’t realized that the Chalice could cure …”
he stopped as Madam Longbottom nodded, blowing on her tea to cool it.

“We’ve lived through terrible days.” said Narcissa, “I’m glad we can now live
through days of wonder.”

“Indeed” said Augusta. “Once all the _truly_ old people have gone through, I
expect I’ll have a go.” She chuckled softly at something. “But I just sat down
here, forgive me, to offer my condolences and to tell Lord Malfoy something.”
Draco waited patiently.

Seeing no response, Augusta continued “You know, last year during the …
confusion, some parents and members of the Board of Governors stopped in at
Hogwarts and witnessed one of David Monroe’s battles. Fought by first years,
no less.” She said, between sips of tea.

“It was fascinating, Narcissa. If Draco is shy, you must press him to open up
about those armies. And if you have told your mother, Draco, I’d love to hear
about them. Someday. But in any case, Young General Malfoy earned quite a lot
of praise from David Monroe.”

Draco blinked. Professor Quirrell had praised him? Publicly?

“Oh, he had criticism too, but said Draco’s mistakes were merely signs that he
was still young.”

“As he is,” said Narcissa, “although not as young as I remember him.” She
smiled.

“It was during this battle that your Father said the second truthful thing. I
thought you’d like to hear it. Your army won the battle, but Lucius took your
… personal defeat … badly. So he probably didn’t ever say it to _you_.”

“What did he tell you, Madam Longbottom?”

“Oh, he didn’t tell me. He told _everyone_. He said,” and here she put down
her cup and stared at Draco, “‘He will be the greatest Lord Malfoy that ever
lived.’”

They all sat quietly.

“I know your anguish, Draco. I know your training was harsh; set to impossible
standards, and now you’ve lost your Father.” She started to get up, and
reached for her coat. “But know that, even if he didn’t show it, he loved you
and was fiercely proud.”

“Thank you Madam Longbottom. I know he loved me; but … I’d never heard him say
it to anyone else.” Augusta put her hat back on her head, secured it with a
firm pat, then took her leave.

* * *

Author’s note (5/5) – Thank you for the kind reviews. This update fixes a few
typos. In particular I always that it was Diraclaw, not Diricawl. I thought
about leaving the typo and introducing a new creature, but for now I fixed it.

Also, thanks to Redditors at r/hpmor, for nitpicking. r/hpmor, for all your
HPMOR needs.

Additionally, Thanks to the guest who pointed out that Augusta misremembered
the quote by Lucius Malfoy in Chapter 78. (The original says “has yet lived”
instead of “ever lived.”) I’ve decided to keep my (misremembered) wording
because a) people’s memories are not exact and b) it seems like the kind of
detail that’s easy to get wrong. Since, you know, I got it wrong

