While working on The Art of Unix Programming, I became aware of a fascinating
archeological discovery â€” the recovery of the lost teachings of an ancient
Unix master...

<!-- more -->

## Editor's Introduction

The discovery of the collection of koans known as the _Rootless Root_,
apparently preserved for decades in the dry upper air of the Western
Mountains, has ignited great controversy in scholarly circles. Are these
authentic documents shedding new light on the teaching of the early Unix
patriarchs? Or are they clever pastiches from a later age, commanding the
authority of semi-mythical figures such as the Patriarchs Thompson, Ritchie
and McIlroy for doctrines which evolved closer to our own era?

It is impossible to say for certain. All sides in the dispute have made much
of an alleged similarity to that venerable classic, _The Tao of
Programming_[1]. But _Rootless Root_ is quite different in tone and style from
the loose, poetic anecdotes of the James translation, focused as it is on the
remarkable and enigmatic figure of Master Foo.

A newer work, the _Unix Power Classic_[2], translates the _Tao Te Ching_ into
an idiom similar to that of _Rootless Root_. _Unix Power Classic_ may well
have been influenced by _Rootless Root_, or further research may disclose that
they had common sources.

It would be more apposite to seek parallels in the _AI Koans_[3]; indeed,
there are textual clues that the author of the _Rootless Root_ may have
redacted certain versions of the _AI Koans_. We are also on much firmer ground
in seeking connections with the _Loginataka_[4]; indeed, it is quite possible
that the unknown authors of _Rootless Root_ and of _Loginataka_ were one and
the same person, possibly a student of Master Foo himself.

Mention should also be made of the _Tales of Zen Master Greg_[5], though the
Nine Inch Nails references have cast some doubt on their antiquity and it is
thus unlikely that they influenced _Rootless Root_.

That the title of the work was intended as a reference to the Zen classic
_Gateless Gate_[6] of Mumon, we can say with fair confidence. There are echoes
of Mumon in several of the koans.

There is considerable dispute over whether Master Foo should be assigned to
the Eastern (New Jersey) School, or the Western School that grew out of the
Patriarch Thompson's epochal early journey to Berkeley. If this question has
not been settled, it is perhaps because we cannot even establish that Master
Foo ever existed! He might merely be a composite of a group of teachers, or of
an entire dharma lineage.

Even supposing the legend of Master Foo accreted around the teaching of some a
single person, what of his favored student Nubi? Nubi has all the earmarks of
a stock figure, the perfect disciple. One is reminded of the tales surrounding
the Buddha's favorite follower Ananda. It seems likely that there was a
historical Ananda, but no trace of his actual personality has survived the
euhemerizing process by which the life of the Buddha was polished into
timeless myth.

In the end, all we can do is take these teaching stories on their own terms,
and extract what kernels of wisdom may be found there.

The redaction of the _Rootless Root_ is a work in progress, as the source
materials present many difficulties in reconstruction and interpretation.
Future versions may include more stories as these difficulties are overcome.

  

* * *

[1] _The Tao of Programming_ is available [on the
Web.](http://www.canonical.org/~kragen/tao-of-programming.html)

[2] _The Unix Power Classic_ is available [on the
Web.](http://mercury.ccil.org/~cowan/upc/)

[3] The _AI Koans_ are available [on the
Web.](http://www.catb.org/~esr//jargon/html/koans.html)

[4] The _Loginataka_ is available [on the
Web.](http://www.catb.org/~esr//faqs/loginataka.html)

[5] The _Tales of Zen Master Greg_ are available [on the
Web.](http://www.gu.uwa.edu.au/users/greg/)

[6] The _Gateless Gate_ is available [on the Web.](http://www.ibiblio.org/zen
/cgi-bin/koan-index.pl)

<div class="panel">
Original story: <a href="
http://catb.org/esr/writings/unix-koans/
">
The Unix Koans of Master Foo
</a>
</div>
